---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-01-29
published: true
labels:
  - BrowserHistory1
  - BrowserHistory2
  - BrowserHistory3
---

<h1>Browser History 1</h1>
When I first opened the instructions for the first WOD, I said to myself, this is going to take a long time to complete. Upon finishing it, I saw that I was right, it did take me forever, 8 attempts to be exact. Although, each attempt was better than the previous one. I tried to do it once without referencing the screencast on how to complete it. I went past the DNF time, and by then I still did not get very far. So, before my second attempt, I watched the screencast. I took some notes and referenced back to the readings in which I felt best correlated to what was happening in the screencast so that I could get a better understanding of what steps were being taken so that I could perform them myself without assistance. By attempting this WOD multiple times, I was able to learn through repetition on how to utilize the commands to execute the actions that I wanted. I learned that with computers, you have to be very precise and accurate, that even a period, comma, misplaced colon, etc, can alter the results tremendously. During one of my attempts, I forgot to add a comma, because of this my code was not working and the output was inconclusive. I was able to catch it and eventually finished it. My advice for the first WOD is to understand HTML and be very attentive to every line and every detail. Be patient and understand everything that you are inputting because the next two WODs build upon this one. 

<h1>Browser History 2</h1>
Going into this second WOD, I was feeling more confident in completing it within a shorter duration of time because I had a general idea of how these assignments work and also noticed that this was a shorter WOD than the first. It took me 5 attempts this time to complete in the Rx time, as I did the first one. In this WOD, I was able to learn how to change the font, color, and position of images. It took me a while to understand the commands needed to make this happen, referring back to the readings consistently until I understood it. It took me a number of times because I was determined to get it done under the Rx time and to be able to execute this WOD smoothly. For me, the reason for why I did not complete it the first time was because I forgot the commands that were needed to make it work, I forgot the syntax, therefore, I went back to the readings, watched the screencast and did it again until I got it down. My advice for this WOD is the same as the previous one, pay close attention to details and the syntax of your code. 

<h1>Browser History 3</h1>
This last WOD seemed a bit easier, but again, I was mistaken, it was not easy but it was not extremely difficult to solve as the first WOD was. This time around I did things slightly differently. I reread the readings, did some googling on formats, then I took diligent notes. After that, I attempted to do it. I did not complete it the first time around again, so I went on to watch the screencast to see what I missed and how it is supposed to be done. After I watched it the first time, I was able to pinpoint my mistakes and went back to google to research what the command was that was used in the screencast and took note of it because it may come useful to me again in the future. I repeated the WOD three more times and on that fourth and final try, I got it down, it was under the Av time however because I made sure that everything worked during my recording before I proceeded. My advice is the same, pay attention to details, take diligent notes, and practice, practice, practice. Should you need help, do not hesitate to reach out. 
